{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Develop Theoretical Argument\
\
\
\
Justify Matching and Show Robustness Compared to Full Sample:\
\

\b0 We've expanded the justification for using matched data. [ACTUALLY DO]\
\
One of the main points that we emphasise in the revised text is that matching is a robustness check for our non-matched data (rather than the other way around). As we can see in tables 1, 2, 3 and Figure 4 the results are more robust (in that there are smaller standard errors) using the full sample.\
\
We prefer to think of the matched data as a robustness check for models with the full data, rather than the other way around.  \
\

\b Exogenous Shocks:\
\

\b0 Following Reviewer 1's advice, we included measures of exogenous shocks in the models. In particular (1) oil price changes and (2) productivity changes, and (3) number of foreign wars. [ACTUALLY DO]\
\
\

\b Reviewer Specific Comments:\
\
Reviewer 1:\
\
Party ID*Linear Quarters to Election
\b0 \
\
Also, following the reviewer's recommendation we have removed the left panel of Figure 6.\
\

\b FOMC Models: 
\b0 \
\
- We have added in the Supplementary Material a brief history of Fed Staff models over our observation period. The main idea is that the models are altered overtime in smaller ways than the shift to the FRB Global forecasting model. [ACTUALLY DO]\
\
However, there are two major empirical problems with separating out how much of the forecast error is model error or non-model error. (1) it is difficult to pin point exactly when each model tweak was made and (2) the model-only forecasts are not publicly available. So it is currently impossible to fully disentangle model from non-model sources of error. ADD\
\

\b Mid-term Elections Robustness Check:
\b0 \
\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Reviewer 2:\
\
- 
\b0 We removed the term 'forecast length'. Instead we now use 'forecast age' throughout and define this more clearly in the text (i.e. how many quarters before the forecasted quarter a prediction was made).\
\
- The Bayesian normal linear regression model was primarily a robustness check.  \
Imai, King, and Lau (2008) argue that it can produce more valid inferences for small sample sizes. That being said, the results across the Bayesian and OLS regressions were substantively similar using both matched and non-matched data. This further increases our confidence in the robustness of our results.\
\
We have clarified this point in the text.\
\
- Figure 5, why do the Republican forecasts get closer to zero as the lag decreases? We would expect the forecasts to get closer to 0 as the lag decreases, because it is easier to make accurate forecasts the closer in time the prediction is made to the thing it is predicting. THINK MORE ABOUT \
\
- Lack of a Partisan ID Effect with Unemployment Errors: the last sentence of this section was poorly worded. The idea of running the models with an orthogonal dependent variable as a robustness check was to examine if some unobserved time period specific factor--rather than partisan ID--was creating the forecast errors. However, we did not find this to be the case. WHY NO EXPECTATION OF UNEMPLOYMENT FORECAST ERRORS?  --UNEMPLOYMENT EASIER TO FORECAST? IF SO CITE---- \
\
- Unexplained terminology: we have clarified the meaning of "rationality of forecasts" and "behavioural economics literature". \
\
- Justification for using inflation forecasts as the dependent variable: We have clarified the text such that the reason inflation forecast accuracy is the most relevant study is not because central bankers are inflation averse, but that they primarily care about inflation. \
\
 }