{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Dear PSRM Editors and Reviewers\
\

\b0 Thank you for the opportunity to revise and resubmit our manuscript: "Inflated Expectations: How government partisanship shapes monetary policy bureaucrats\'92 inflation forecasts" as well as the very helpful suggestions.
\b \
\

\b0 We have incorporated the reviewers' suggestions in the revised manuscript and provide brief discussions of each change here.
\b \
\
Shared Issues\
\
Structure
\b0  \
\
To be able to adequately address the reviewers' suggestions within the journal's space constraints we have added a Supplementary Materials section to the paper. If published the Supplementary Materials section could be published online.
\b \
\
Composition of Congress Discussion
\b0 \
\
Reviewers 1 and 2 have conflicting advice on how to present the discussion of the composition of Congress. One suggests moving it to a discussion of robustness checks. The other suggests moving it into the main theory section. Given this conflicting advice we have left the discussion in the Variables section. However, we would be pleased to move it to another section if a consensus is reached. IS THIS OK? 
\b \
\
Develop Theoretical Argument\
\
\
\
Justify Matching and Show Robustness Compared to Full Sample:
\b0 \
\
We feel that we poorly presented the use of matching methods. Primarily, the matching methods are really a robustness check on results from the full sample (which are also presented throughout the results and discussion) rather than the 'main analysis' as such. We recognise that the original structure did not emphasis this and so we have changed it to emphasise matching as a robustness check. \
\
Overall, results from the matched data are substantively the same, with larger uncertainty surrounding the point estimates from the matched compared to unmatched data. We can see in tables 1, 2, 3 and Figure 4 the results are more robust (in that there are smaller standard errors) using the full sample.\
\
We've expanded the justification for using matched data. [ACTUALLY DO]\
\
Matching and causal inference is a currently highly contested issue in statistics and political science (see, Sekhon 2008, 277). We use matching methods not so much to definitively establish a cause, but to show that in addition to the strong associational evidence we find using the full sample, that we have also found evidence that is congruent with a Neyman-Ruben approach to causation. Whether or not this is sufficient proof that a causal mechanism has been found, rather than a strong association is beyond the scope of this paper and is in fact a standard that virtually no work in a major political science journal definitively meets.   \
\
The points to emphasise is that we prefer to think of the matched data as a robustness check for models with the full data, rather than the other way around and that regardless of whether matched or unmatched data was used, the main results are substantively the same.  \
\

\b Shocks:\
\

\b0 Following Reviewer 1's advice, in the Supplementary Material we included measures of exogenous shocks in the models. In particular (1) oil price changes and (2) productivity changes, and (3) number of foreign wars. Including these variables, did not change the presidential party ID result.\
\
Following Reviewer 2's advice, in the Supplemental Materials we also examined the actual inflation level in the quarter forecasted for and the inflation level in the quarter before the forecast was made. These also did not change the president partisan ID results.  \
\

\b Reviewer Specific Comments:\
\
Reviewer 1:\
\
Party ID*Linear Quarters to Election
\b0 \
\
There is substantively no difference in the results for interactions between president party ID and the linear or polynomial version of quarters to election. We have added a note on this in the text and include regression output in the Supplementary Material. \
\
Also, following the reviewer's recommendation we have removed the left panel of Figure 6.\
\
\

\b FOMC Models: 
\b0 \
\
- We have added in the Supplementary Material a brief history of Fed Staff models over our observation period. The main idea is that the models are altered overtime in smaller ways than the shift to the FRB Global forecasting model. [ACTUALLY DO]\
\
However, there are two major empirical problems with separating out how much of the forecast error is model error or non-model error. (1) it is difficult to pin point exactly when each model tweak was made and (2) the model-only forecasts are not publicly available. So it is currently impossible to fully disentangle model from non-model sources of error. ADD\
\

\b Mid-term Elections Robustness Check:
\b0 \
\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Reviewer 2:\
\
- 
\b0 We removed the term 'forecast length'. Instead we now use 'forecast age' throughout and define this more clearly in the text (i.e. how many quarters before the forecasted quarter a prediction was made).\
\
- The Bayesian normal linear regression model was primarily a robustness check.  \
Imai, King, and Lau (2008) argue that it can produce more valid inferences for small sample sizes. That being said, the results across the Bayesian and OLS regressions were substantively similar using both matched and non-matched data. This further increases our confidence in the robustness of our results.\
\
We have clarified this point in the text.\
\
- Importance of Greenbook forecasts: In the first section we have strengthened the discussion of why studying Greenbook forecasts is important. COMPLETE\
\
- Figure 5, why do the Republican forecasts get closer to zero as the lag decreases? First it is important to note that though the mean does get closer to 0, there is considerable overlap in the confidence intervals. So we should be cautious about over interpreting this result. Second, to the extent that forecast errors during Republican presidencies do get closer to 0, this is what we would expect. It is easier to make accurate forecasts the closer in time the prediction is made to the thing it is predicting. It's notable that, though closer to 0 it is still estimated to be below zero, i.e. under-estimated.\
\
- Lack of a Partisan ID Effect with Unemployment Errors: the last sentence of this section was poorly worded. The idea of running the models with an orthogonal dependent variable as a robustness check was to examine if some unobserved time period specific factor--rather than partisan ID--was creating the forecast errors. However, we did not find this to be the case. WHY NO EXPECTATION OF UNEMPLOYMENT FORECAST ERRORS?  --UNEMPLOYMENT EASIER TO FORECAST? IF SO CITE---- \
\
- Unexplained terminology: we have clarified the meaning of "rationality of forecasts" and "behavioural economics literature". \
\
- Justification for using inflation forecasts as the dependent variable: We have clarified the text such that the reason inflation forecast accuracy is the most relevant study is not because central bankers are inflation averse, but that they primarily care about inflation. \
\
 }